>> Jason Lengstorf: But
before we can talk about what Gatsby is,
we need to understand the problems
that Gatsby is solving.
So let's look at the challenges
of modern web development.
And modern web development is
such a powerful thing, but
it comes with this just kind
of big knot of challenges.
And three of them, if we were to
put them into their big buckets,
one is just that getting
started is overwhelming.
There are dozens or hundreds of tools for
for doing just frontend development.
And that can mean that
when you get started,
it's hard to decide what you should use.
It's hard to figure out how
all these pieces fit together.
It's hard to get it customized
to do the thing that you want.
You sometimes feel like,
I wanna write some code.
But ultimately, what you end up doing is
spending hours reading documentation for
various projects just to get something
up and running in the browser.
>> Jason Lengstorf: The way that we
manage our data is also evolving.
We are no longer using just monolithic
CMSs, where the database, the content
management part, the UI, and everything is
handled through one monolithic code base.
That's starting to break apart, and we're
starting to see different strategies for
this, and so we need to be able
to address that in our code.
And third,
getting it right is just really hard.
You can make an entire career
out of multiple subsections.
You can become a DevOps specialist, and
spend your whole career just launching,
and scaling, and deploying sites.
You can become a performance expert or
UX expert.
And each of those things,
it's deep enough that you could spend
your entire career learning and
improving in that area, and you'd probably
still never hit the bottom of that.
You'd probably still never learn
everything there is to know.
So if we're gonna build
these great experiences, and
we have to do all of that,
we have to make a great UX,
we have to get it up and performant,
we have to get it deployed and scaled.
It's just really hard to get all
of that right, as one person or
as a small team, and so
we need to address that.
And so Gatsby is designed to
try to address these problems.
And so the first way that we do that
is Gatsby is designed to be a shortcut.
We wanna allow developers to quickly
build excellent apps and sites, and
we do that by helping to
eliminate boilerplate.
Boilerplate is really common
in modern JavaScript,
in modern apps in general,
where you want to just build something.
I wanna open up the browser and
type hello world and see it show up.
But it ends up being a huge amount
of setup to make this work.
And so let's do this,
let's see how we can get from our console,
we wanna open something up,
open a code editor, write something,
and then show it in the browser.
So I do that, I'm like, great,
this is gonna be so much fun.
But then I need Webpack.
Okay, why do I need Webpack?
Well, I need the JavaScript to be
bundled in a way that can be used on
the page, okay.
All right, but then I wanna use ES15,
so I need Babel.
Okay, so then I need to do CSS, and
I wanna make sure that that's optimized
properly, and has all the polyfills and
the proprietary property names.
Okay, so now I've got PostCSS in here,
and then I need to get it on a server, so
I'm now dealing with Node.js.
And then when I get that Node server
stood up, I have to post that somewhere.
So now I'm looking at a container,
or Kubernetes or Docker, or
I'm trying to get it in somewhere,
all right.
So then I need to route this somehow,
so now I'm installing
Nginex to make sure that it's pointing
to my app when somebody hits my domain.
And the assets are just chewing through my
bandwidth, so now I gotta install a CDN.
And suddenly,
I haven't even written any code yet.
This is just the stuff that I
have to do to get the site up and
running in my browser, and then out onto
the Internet, and that's a lot of stuff.
So Gatsby's removing the boilerplate for
getting started and deploying.
We want you to be able to,
very quickly, just open the browser and
start seeing the stuff that you're typing,
no boilerplate, no nonsense.
And so it looks a little bit like this.
You have your code editor, you install
Gatsby, and then you just build a site.
You don't have to worry about Webpack or
Babel, or any of this boilerplate.
You just get to write some code,
and you see it in the browser.
A library loads as you develop,
and when you're ready,
you just deploy it to Netlify.
And the great thing about this is that
to use Gatsby, there's very little to
learn that you wouldn't already know if
you were working with React and GraphQL.
Because under the hood,
Gatsby's just using React and GraphQL.
So you get to work with languages that
you already know that will transfer from
other jobs or other frameworks.
If you're working in React or
if you're working with a GraphQL code
base, those skills are gonna transfer.
You don't have to relearn a new language
to use Gatsby, you just get to use React.
And then when you deploy it in Netlify,
Netlify just watches your GitHub branches.
And when you push to that GitHub branch,
it's like, okay, cool,
I'll put that on the Internet for you.
And you don't have to
worry about deployment.
Because Gatsby's deploying
as static assets,
you also don't have to
worry about server scaling.
You don't have to worry
about database charting.
You don't have to worry about
making things synchronize, or
eventually consistent, or
all these words that are terrifying
when you start thinking about
scaling production apps.
Instead, you just say, here's a bucket of
static files, I'm gonna put this on a CDN.
CDNs are designed to geographically
distribute that stuff.
And because it's static, you don't
have to worry about database access,
you don't have to worry
about the server going down.
You don't have to worry about DDoS.
I mean,
it takes quite a bit to DDoS a CDN, right?
So your site is going to be resilient,
and you don't have to think about it.
You just say, Netlify,
please host my site.
And it says, gotcha, continue about your
day, don't worry about this anymore.